 
United Nations 
A/RES/64/259 
 
General Assembly 
Distr.: General 
5 May 2010 
Sixty-fourth session 
Agenda item 130 
 
09-47737 
*0947737* 
Please rec cle ♲
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 29 March 2010 
[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/596/Add.1)] 
64/259. Towards an accountability system in the United Nations 
Secretariat 
 
 
 
The General Assembly,  
 
Recalling its resolutions 59/272 of 23 December 2004 and 60/254 of 8 May 
2006, section I of its resolution 60/260 of 8 May 2006 and its resolutions 60/283 of 
7 July 2006, 61/245 of 22 December 2006 and 63/276 of 7 April 2009, 
 
Recalling also its resolutions 55/231 of 23 December 2000, 56/253 of 
24 December 2001, 57/290 B of 18 June 2003 and 59/296 of 22 June 2005 and 
paragraph 2 of its resolution 60/257 of 8 May 2006, 
 
Reaffirming its commitment to strengthening accountability in the United 
Nations Secretariat and the accountability of the Secretary-General for the 
performance of the Secretariat to all Member States, 
 
Stressing that accountability is a central pillar of effective and efficient 
management that requires attention and strong commitment at the highest level of 
the Secretariat, 
 
Aware of the significant flaws in terms of internal monitoring, inspection and 
accountability regarding, for example, the management of the United Nations oil-
for-food programme, 
 
Noting that since its sixtieth session, the General Assembly has included in its 
agenda the item entitled “Follow-up to the recommendations on administrative 
management and internal oversight of the Independent Inquiry Committee into the 
United Nations Oil-for-Food Programme”, 
 
Noting also that the absence of a comprehensive accountability system at the 
United Nations could lead to mismanagement, waste and risks in the Organization, 
 
Recognizing and reaffirming the important role of the oversight bodies in the 
development of an accountability system that is relevant to the United Nations, 
A/RES/64/259 
2 
 
Having considered the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Towards an 
accountability system in the United Nations Secretariat”,0F1 the related report of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 1F2 and the report of 
the Office of Internal Oversight Services on the review of the practice of the 
Secretariat regarding the sharing of information contained in reports of consultants 
on management-related issues, 2F3 
 
1. 
Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;1 
 
2. 
Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report 
of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2 subject to 
the provisions of the present resolution; 
 
3. 
Reaffirms its role with regard to the structure of the Secretariat, and 
stresses that proposals to amend the overall departmental structure, as well as the 
format of the programme budget and the biennial programme plan, are subject to its 
review and prior approval; 
 
4. 
Requests the Joint Inspection Unit to submit to the General Assembly, for 
consideration at the main part of its sixty-seventh session, a comparative analysis 
report on various accountability frameworks in the United Nations system; 
 
5. 
Reaffirms its commitment to strengthening accountability in the United 
Nations Secretariat and the accountability of the Secretary-General to Member 
States and the achievement of results, and urges the Secretary-General to further 
strengthen consultation with the oversight bodies with a view to ensuring 
accountability in the Secretariat; 
 
6. 
Stresses the importance of promoting a culture of accountability, results-
based management, enterprise risk management and internal controls at all levels in 
the Secretariat through the continued leadership and commitment of senior 
managers, and requests the Secretary-General to take appropriate measures to this 
end, including, inter alia, the training of relevant staff; 
 
7. 
Also stresses, as one of the essential components of accountability, the 
importance of compliance with the Charter of the United Nations, its resolutions and 
the regulations and rules;  
 
A. 
Definition of accountability and roles and responsibilities 
 
8. 
Decides that accountability shall be defined as follows: 
 
 
Accountability is the obligation of the Secretariat and its staff members 
to be answerable for all decisions made and actions taken by them, and to be 
responsible for honouring their commitments, without qualification or 
exception. 
 
 
Accountability includes achieving objectives and high-quality results in a 
timely and cost-effective manner, in fully implementing and delivering on all 
mandates to the Secretariat approved by the United Nations intergovernmental 
bodies and other subsidiary organs established by them in compliance with all 
resolutions, regulations, rules and ethical standards; truthful, objective, 
_______________ 
1 A/64/640. 
2 A/64/683 and Corr.1. 
3 A/64/587. 
A/RES/64/259 
3 
accurate and timely reporting on performance results; responsible stewardship 
of funds and resources; all aspects of performance, including a clearly defined 
system of rewards and sanctions; and with due recognition to the important 
role of the oversight bodies and in full compliance with accepted 
recommendations. 
 
9. 
Requests the Secretary-General to continue to draw on lessons learned, 
experience and expertise from the United Nations programmes and funds and other 
United Nations entities when developing the accountability system of the United 
Nations Secretariat; 
 
B. 
Performance reporting  
 
10. Recalls paragraph 9 (b) of its resolution 63/276 and section II.B of the 
report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2 and 
requests the Secretary-General, in future budget performance reports, to make 
efforts to provide a greater degree of analysis of data on the utilization of resources 
and to include subsequent trends over past budget periods in order to make the 
performance reports a more useful accountability and monitoring tool for Member 
States; 
 
11. Also recalls paragraph 25 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2 and requests the Secretary-General to 
identify appropriate methods and tools to portray the efficiency with which the 
Secretariat undertakes its work; 
 
C. 
Implementation of the recommendations of oversight bodies  
 
12. Emphasizes the importance of the full and timely implementation of the 
recommendations of oversight bodies, and stresses, in this regard, the role of the 
Management 
Committee 
for 
monitoring 
and 
ensuring 
that 
accepted 
recommendations are followed up and implemented in a timely manner, and the 
need for transparency in the work of the Committee; 
 
D. 
Personal and institutional accountability 
 
13. Emphasizes the importance of establishing and fully implementing real, 
effective and efficient mechanisms that foster institutional and personal 
accountability at all levels; 
 
14. Recalls section I, paragraph 4, of its resolution 63/250 of 24 December 
2008, and requests the Secretary-General to analyse the impact of his proposed 
human resources management reform measures on personal accountability; 
 
15. Requests the Secretary-General to propose concrete and comprehensive 
measures to strengthen personal accountability at all levels within the Secretariat, 
based on the definition of accountability as outlined in paragraph 8 above; and its 
link with institutional accountability towards Member States on results achieved and 
resources used; 
 
16. Also requests the Secretary-General to further improve the managers’ 
evaluation system, and to clearly identify the critical linkages between institutional 
and personal accountability through the senior managers’ compacts, and the 
performance appraisal system of all staff below the level of Assistant Secretary-
General, and to establish proper accountability mechanisms for under-performance 
at all levels; 
A/RES/64/259 
4 
 
17. Further requests the Secretary-General to further develop and take 
appropriate measures to hold staff accountable for mismanagement and wrongful or 
improper decisions and to strengthen efforts to increase recovery actions by those 
convicted of fraud in the Organization; 
 
18. Notes the measures taken by the Secretary-General to improve 
assessment of each senior manager’s performance, and requests the Secretary-
General to ensure that the weaknesses identified by the Management Performance 
Board are fully and appropriately addressed; 
 
E. 
Selection and appointment of senior managers 
 
19. Recalls the conclusion of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions in paragraph 28 of its report,2 and in this regard requests the 
Joint Inspection Unit to submit a report on possible measures to further enhance 
transparency in the selection and appointment process of senior managers at the 
main part of its sixty-sixth session, to be considered in conjunction with the report 
on the implementation of the present resolution referred to in paragraph 33 below; 
 
F. 
Reform of the performance appraisal system  
 
20. Notes with concern the delay in the implementation of Inspira and its 
impact on the ability of the Secretary-General to provide a comprehensive reform 
effort regarding performance management, emphasizes the need for its timely 
implementation, and further stresses that the value added by such systems is 
dependent on its effective utilization by staff to achieve the intended results; 
 
G. 
Delegation of authority 
 
21. Recalls paragraph 36 of the report of the Advisory Committee on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2 and requests the Secretary-General to 
urgently address the continued deficiencies in the current delegation of authority 
system through the promulgation of well-defined roles and responsibilities of 
individuals at all levels to whom authority is delegated, the systemic reporting 
mechanisms on monitoring and exercise of delegated authority and actions to be 
taken in cases of mismanagement or abuse of authority; 
 
H. 
Implementation of the results-based management framework  
 
22. Reaffirms paragraphs 7 to 9 of its resolution 55/231; 
 
23. Requests the Secretary-General to take appropriate measures to 
accelerate the implementation of results-based management, taking into account 
paragraph 43 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions;2 
 
24. Stresses that results-based management will require the Organization to 
create a sustained focus on results, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General 
to take concrete measures to achieve a cultural change throughout the Organization; 
 
25. Notes that the effective implementation of results-based management 
requires the sustained and focused engagement by senior management, and in this 
regard encourages the Secretary-General to assign the responsibility for the 
successful implementation of results-based management methodology throughout 
the Secretariat to a relevant member of his senior management team, and to 
communicate this assigned responsibility to all stakeholders as a matter of priority; 
A/RES/64/259 
5 
 
26. Stresses the need to focus on attaining results within approved mandates, 
which is ultimately the responsibility of the Secretary-General; 
 
27. Reaffirms its commitment to improving the effectiveness of the 
operational capacity of the Secretariat by the use of results-based management; 
 
I. 
Results-based management information system  
 
28. Requests the Secretary-General to include in his report referred to in 
paragraph 33 below the results of his consultations to be undertaken with other 
entities that have implemented the enterprise resource planning systems to derive 
lessons learned regarding the contribution made by such systems to strengthening 
accountability, and concrete measures to strengthen managerial commitment in this 
regard for the better utilization of the system; 
 
29. Also requests the Secretary-General to include in his report referred to in 
paragraph 33 below concrete measures taken to ensure managerial commitment to 
utilize the full potential of the enterprise resource planning project in all aspects of 
the performance of the Organization, including strengthening individual and 
institutional accountability; 
 
J. 
Enterprise risk management and internal control framework  
 
30. Emphasizes that the risk management should be dynamic, that it is the 
inherent responsibility of staff at all levels in the Secretariat, and that each 
department is accountable for the risk assessment in the delivery of its respective 
mandate; 
 
31. Regrets the absence of an effective and integrated internal control 
framework, which is a serious gap in the existing accountability system, and 
requests the Secretary-General to work on enhancing the current capabilities in the 
Secretariat responsible for risk assessment and mitigation and internal control, on 
the basis of the recommendations in paragraphs 49 and 50 of the report of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions2 and annex II to 
the report of the Secretary-General;1 
 
K. 
How the current and proposed accountability mechanisms in the Secretariat 
would have addressed the flaws in the management of the United Nations 
oil-for-food programme 
 
32. Requests the Secretary-General, building on lessons learned as outlined 
in section K of his report,1 to include in his report referred to in paragraph 33 below 
concrete measures to prevent potential conflict of interest in the current process 
governing procurement, and measures aimed at improving recovery actions; 
 
Reporting 
 
33. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at the 
main part of its sixty-sixth session on the implementation of the present resolution. 
 
81st plenary meeting 
29 March 2010 
